feat(docs): added "how is the latency" (#1375)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/faq.md

When a keyboard accepts a small “PCB MCU module” (e.g. _Arduino Pro Micro_) for its “brains”, then it's important to conceptually separate the hardware into a [board](#what-is-a-board) PCB and a [shield](#what-is-a-shield) PCB.

> The [shield](#what-is-a-shield) is a "brainless" shell containing all the keys, RGB LEDs, encoders etc. It maps all of these features to a standard pin footprint, such as the Pro Micro pinout.

Reviewer: Not sure if we use ironic quotes anywhere else in the documentation. Perhaps we could change out the term entirely?

Currently, ZMK only supports wireless split, but wired split is possible and we welcome contributions!

### How is the latency?

> The latency of ZMK is comparable to other firmware offerings. ZMK is equipped with a variety of scanning methods and debounce algorithms that can affect the final measured latency. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWL4nU-vtWs) shows a latency comparison of ZMK and other keyboard firmwares.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the debounce docs as well from here?

I wonder if it might be worthwhile to also add an entry specifically talking about "2.4ghz dongles" and the plan/non-plan there.

Reviewer 3: > I wonder if it might be worthwhile to also add an entry specifically talking about "2.4ghz dongles" and the plan/non-plan there.

@Hello9999901 has added an entry with commit a197bf8.

I think a section regarding "2.4ghz dongles" would be another good addition to the FAQ although I wonder if perhaps this too would be best discussed in separate PR, so we can merge this "how is the latency" section now?

Author: I was talking about this with Pete, and he said to have them together in the same PR.

Currently, ZMK only supports wireless split, but wired split is possible and we welcome contributions!

### How is the latency?

> The latency of ZMK is comparable to other firmware offerings. ZMK is equipped with a variety of scanning methods and [debounce algorithms](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/debouncing) that can affect the final measured latency. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWL4nU-vtWs) shows a latency comparison of ZMK and other keyboard firmwares.

Reviewer 3: Because this is an internal page, we'd use a relative link to the file, like so:

```suggestion
The latency of ZMK is comparable to other firmware offerings. ZMK is equipped with a variety of scanning methods and [debounce algorithms](features/debouncing.md) that can affect the final measured latency. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWL4nU-vtWs) shows a latency comparison of ZMK and other keyboard firmwares.
```

You can see some other examples of this on [intro.md](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zmkfirmware/zmk/a197bf88bab8a3e4d60846212b684fb54c7e5290/docs/docs/intro.md).

### Any chance for 2.4GHz dongle implementation?

> Unfortunately, there are no current plans to implement 2.4GHz dongle mode. This is because utilizing Nordic's proprietary 2.4GHz radio requires use of the Nordic Connect SDK, which possesses a more restrictive license than ZMK's MIT license. However, ZMK does plans to implement dongle mode using BLE (with encryption), although with an additional 3.5ms average latency over the 2.4GHz radio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, there are no current plans to implement 2.4GHz dongle mode. This is because utilizing Nordic's proprietary 2.4GHz low level protocols requires use of the Nordic Connect SDK, which is licensed with a more restrictive license than ZMK's MIT license. However, ZMK does plans to implement dongle mode using BLE (with encryption). This will result in a 3.5ms average latency from the protocol itself.
```

Reviewer 4: Also "ZMK does plan**s**" -> "ZMK does plan"

More accurately 3.75ms latency, not 3.5ms.

> Unfortunately, there are no current plans to implement 2.4GHz dongle mode. This is because utilizing Nordic's proprietary 2.4GHz low level protocols requires use of the Nordic Connect SDK, which is licensed with a more restrictive license than ZMK's MIT license. However, ZMK does plan to implement dongle mode using BLE (with encryption). This will result in a 3.75ms average latency from the protocol itself.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, one more comment, to change the *tone* a bit here:

```suggestion
At this time, there are no current plans to implement 2.4GHz dongle mode. This is because utilizing Nordic's proprietary 2.4GHz low level protocols requires use of the Nordic Connect SDK, which is licensed with a more restrictive license than ZMK's MIT license. However, ZMK does plan to implement dongle mode using BLE (with encryption). This will result in a 3.75ms average latency from the protocol itself.
```

Currently, ZMK only supports wireless split, but wired split is possible and we welcome contributions!

### How is the latency?

> ZMK uses [interrupts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interrupt) to scan for key presses. Thus, the polling speed is high (> 1ms) and lowers input delay. For more information on ZMK's latency, check out this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWL4nU-vtWs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZMK uses [interrupts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interrupt) to scan for key presses. Thus, the polling speed is high (> 1ms) and lowers input delay. For a comparison of input latency between ZMK and other keyboard offerings, see this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWL4nU-vtWs).
```

Alternatively, similar to https://zmk.dev/docs/features/underglow:

```suggestion
ZMK uses [interrupts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interrupt) to scan for key presses. Thus, the polling speed is high (> 1ms) and lowers input delay. For a comparison of input latency between ZMK and other keyboard offerings, see the following video:

<figure class="video-container">
  <iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/2KJkq8ssDU0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen width="100%"></iframe>
</figure>
```

Some keyboards (BDN9 Rev. 2, Ferris Rev. 1/2, Planck, Clueboard) use polling instead of interrupts, so this section may not be completely accurate.

> By default, ZMK uses [interrupts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interrupt) to scan for key presses. However, ZMK is equipped with a variety of scanning methods and debounce algorithms that can affect the final measured latency. Latency is comparable to other firmware offerings, although it is highly dependent on the setup. For a video comparing ZMK and other keyboard firmwares' latency, see this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWL4nU-vtWs).

Author: Thank you for the feedback; I will remove the other parts of this PR.
